Now I'm gonna talk about how to consume
those packages that you installed
inside of your own modules.
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna head over
to my Package folder.
I'm gonna make a new file.
Not a new folder, a new file.
I'll call it index.mjs, and
I want to consume that lodash
package that I just installed.
So what you would probably wanna do is
go look at the documentation on how to
do that.
So, in the sake of following my
own advice, I'm gonna do that.
I'm gonna look at the documentation and
see if maybe they're up to date with es
modules, and
they have a really great thing.
Wow, that's so many files.
My goodness!
Here we go.
So the documentation is
basically using common js,
it's using the require statement.
So I'm going see if I can get lucky and
try out these es module imports instead.
So I'm gonna say lodash is
usually used as an underscore,
and that's a play on another library
called _js which lodash replaced.
So usually people use
the _variable name for lodash.
So I'm gonna do the same thing.
Import from lodash.
So let's try that and
let's see if this import actually works.
Let's see what happens.
So now I'm going to run that code.
And it looks like it works just fine.
So the interrupt here was just fine.
The creators of lodash
must anticipated this and
made sure I was able to
import it with no problems.
So, a couple things to notice here.
When we, let's go back to what we were
working on earlier, before when we were
importing modules that we created,
notice that I put this ./ here, right?
This is very important.
This is not optional.
When you put a ./ or if you got to go up
a couple levels or, whatever that is.
Long as there's a dot there, this is
telling NPM, this is telling know that,
hey, I want you to resolve
a module that I created locally.
This is a local module that I created.
It's on the file system.
It's in this project.
It's in this directory somewhere.
Go get it, it's a file.
But when you don't put the dot in
front of it or slash like that,
it's telling NPM and know that hey,
this is either an internal module like Fs,
or it's something that I installed via
NPM and it's in a node modules folder.
So what node is gonna do and
NPM is gonna do it's gonna first check
to see if this is internal It's not,
then it's going to recursively start
walking up your directory tree and
checking every node modules folder
until it finds the matching thing.
If it can't find it in the current working
directory, then it will error out.
I mean, it'll literally go all the way up
to like the global folder of your computer
looking for it.
So if it doesn't find it,
then you're like,
I can't find this module like friends
if I change this to something else, and
I tried to run this code,
it's gonna say MODULE_ NOT_ FOUND and
can literally cannot find
that module right there.
So it's gonna keep looking.
So if you have multiple node modules
folders above this folder and something
exists in there, it'll find it and use it
and that may or may not be what you want.
So just be cautious of that,
that is gonna keep looking for
the closest one until we
resolve this package.
You can change that behavior if you want,
but it's not worth it.
Cool, so,
that's how we use those packages.
And then as far as like if we
wanted to uninstall this package,
we could say NPM uninstall
followed by the name lodash and
as you can see it'll remove it.
If I checked the package lock,
it's no longer there.
By tech I checked the package
JSON is no longer there.
It's gone.
So uninstall completely removes it
from the node modules folder as well,
which as you can see was deleted
because I don't have any more modules.
So NPM was smart enough
to just delete it for me.
It seems like nothing was ever
there in the first place.
So that's how you uninstall.
Now we did have a question about NPX.
So I wanna talk about NPX.
But before we talk about NPX, I wanna
talk about global installs of packages.
So far we've been installing packages
locally to a project as it's going to
exists inside of this app that
I'm making and nowhere else.
If you're not in this app,
you can't use it.
But sometimes you want some packages
to exist globally on your machine and
that's useful for things like a CLI.
For instance NPM is a CLI.
And did you know that you
can install NPM with NPM?
Yeah, I know it sounds crazy but
you can because NPM is a package itself
that can also be installed with NPM.
So can yarn you can install
yarn with NPM if you wanted to.
And both of those should be global because
we want to be able to use them from our
terminal like this.
If they were not global,
we couldn't use them.
So if you want to install something
global, you would do NPM install,
followed by the name.
We try yarn this this time and
then you would say -g for global.
And then you will try to install it.
So you can see right now I
just installed yarn globally.
So if I say which yarn,
you can see I have yarn now, and
I use NPM to install that globally.
Now, sometimes there are some global CLIs,
some global tools that you
don't want to install.
But you need some functionality out
of them for there is a one off thing.
Maybe it's a scaffolding tool.
Maybe it's a deployment tool, but
it's just something you don't really
wanna keep around, but
you do need to run it right quick.
That's where NPX comes from.
So NPX was also installed
when you installed node.
It's already here.
If I type in which NPX, I should see that,
hey, I have this thing called NPX.
NPX is basically like running
one off global install.
So instead of installing yarn
I could have just said npx and
then yarn, and
then whatever command that yarn can do.
So in this case yarn has like a yarn add,
then I'm gonna say yarn add lodash, so
I'm telling npx to tell yarn to install
lodash for me, so it's very meta.
And this you can see it
executed pretty quick.
So it basically just runs that tool for
us whatever this tool is
in this case it's yarn.
And whatever functionality that that
command has it runs that without actually
installing yarn.
Even though I haven't
installed it on my machine.
If I didn't,
npx will still work the same way.
So it's great for one off global
tasks that you don't wanna install.
So, CI environments or CLI, as you just
know you're not gonna use other than for
like this one thing,
it's perfect for that.
And then to uninstaller globally,
you will just literally do
the same thing as before.
The uninstall but you would just say
that dash g and it will uninstall it.
And it's that simple, it's gone.
So npm is came up a long way it
didn't used to be this good, but
now it's pretty good.
I've used yarn pretty much.
The whole time it's been out and
I just recently switched back
to npm because it's amazing.
But it doesn't really
matter which one you use.
They're both really good.
And questions on any of that so far?
>> Does it make any difference if you
use dependencies versus using dev
dependencies in package.json.
>> Good question.
Yes, I was going to talk
about dev dependencies.
Yes, where's our talk
Yes, I was gonna talk about dev
dependencies in the testing section, but
I'll hint at it just now.
There is the only difference when
it comes to dependencies and
dev dependencies is how and
when they're installed.
But as far as functionality,
there's no difference.
You can use a dev dependency the same
way you can use a regular dependency.
It just comes down to how and
when they're installed.
Yeah, good question.
The question was, is there a problem if
we use npm and yarn in the same project?
I would say yeah,
that would be a problem because now
everyone else has to do the same thing.
So, because okay,
now there's a yarn lock file that says,
here's the package of
the version that we need.
And now there's a package
lock file that says, well,
here's a package of
the version that we need.
So which one is the source of truth?
I don't know.
I guess it depends on which
one you installed with.
Yes, they both will write to
the package.json file and
least your dependencies will be in there.
But if any of those dependencies
required a conflict.
Like for instance, if you had a mono
repo that had like reacted and
then there was another react app
living next to it that was meant for
like storybook or I don't know,
whatever your configuration was,
then how do you know what
version of react to resolve to?
And how do you know which tool did
the resolution was a yarn or was an npm?
Well, you don't.
So, you'll just end up with probably the
wrong version compared to everyone else.
So if you are working on an existing
project that's already using something,
use that, I highly recommend using
that and if you made a mistake and
use something else, delete it, did not
check it into git, and just get rid of it.
One thing that I've done in the past
is I've always added like a script to
the package.json.
So if you go to package.json,
you can add whatever you want here.
And sometimes it might make some sense
to like make a script here, that like,
does something, right.
So this is npm.
So now if you just, if you run like that
now it doesn't really matter what you do.
It can be very confusing,
if you try to put two in there.
I highly recommend just use
whatever is in the project.
And don't try to do anything else because
everyone else has to also change as well.
So yeah, just delete it.